In raid LFGs and within groups you might see some abbreviations and
wonder what they mean. Below are ones that are most common. If you come
across one that you've never heard of, let us know so that it can be
added!

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Roles

**Alac** - alacrity giver (renegade, mirage, spectre or mechanist). Note
if it just says alac, usually means dps alac. Some LFGs will list as
"dpsalac" or "healalac". Mechanist, spectre and renegade have heal
variants and all have dps variants. Also see [boons](../boons/).

**BS** - this is looking for a "banner slave", which is a warrior with
banners. This is usually a berserker, although can be spellbreaker on
some bosses (mostly Dhuum, Qadim and Qadim the Peerless). The standard
banners are Strength and Discipline. If your group is dying lots, they
may also bring the elite banner.

**DPS** - anyone whose main job is damage. This can be any class except
druid (which doesn't currently have the ability to do much dps). If
you're signing as dps, most groups will expect you to run a build from
SnowCrows or at least a build that will do at least 10-15k dps. Note
that dps actually stands for "damage per second".

**HK**, **BK** - these are specialist roles at Deimos. HK is "hand kite"
and is usually a soulbeast, herald or spellbreaker with big damage
reduction/self sustain. BK is "black kite" and they place the black oils
in good places by being closest to Deimos (except the tank) - often a
dps if the tank is a heal.

**Heal** - any class with a heal spec. Healers are usually expected to
do boons, but check the rest of the composition for what is needed. You
can find the various heal classes in [healers](../healers/).

**Kite** - a class which can self sustain and/or attack from range.
There are various kite roles - Sabetha (flak kiting), Deimos (see
hand/black kiting), Qadim (killing lava elementals), Dhuum (messenger
control), Qadim the Peerless (see pylon).

**Lamp** - a role at Qadim. They go into the lamp and clear the enemies
there. Needs some self sustain and fairly good damage. Usual classes are
reaper, spellbreaker/berserker, scourge, daredevil (usually as a duo).

**Quick** - quickness giver (firebrand, scrapper, catalyst, chrono,
harbinger). As with alac, can be split into "dpsquick" or "healquick".
Often "quick" on its own will mean "dpsquick". Firebrand, catalyst and
scrapper are your heal variants and all 4 classes have dps variants.
Also see [boons](../boons/).

**Push** - mostly a role at Soulless Horror (done most often by a druid
though other classes *can* do it) to push the Tormented Dead golem guy.
Keep Construct also has a "push" role to push the orbs through rifts in
one of the phases, but this can be done by anyone with a fast enough
weapon speed (usually ranged and one of the healers in a double heal
composition).

**Pylon** - this is a role at Qadim the Peerless. Usually a scourge,
deadeye or virtuoso. Other classes can sometimes do it but aren't as
stable. Looks after the pylon and has a long range teleport to collect
an orb and return it to the pylon. Needs self sustain (often through
dealing damage).

**Sabs/mortars** - two different people at Bandit Trio. One is to cc any
saboteurs that try and place bombs at the cage. You need the Nuhoch
Stealth mastery for this (usually the warrior). The other is to go cc
the Bombadiers that place mortars. You need 200cc per Bombadier and
there are up to 3 at once (so 600 cc).

**Tower chrono/Cave chrono** - a mesmer for the Escort mission in Wing 3
who will solo run through the cave and either portal for towers or solo
towers or sometimes be part of a team for them. Note mirage and virtuoso
also work for towers/cave, but the LFG usually wants a chrono to solo
the whole mechanic.

**Wisps** - someone to go kill wisps on the last platform of Sabir's
fight. This is usually the banner warrior, but anyone with some cc and
fair dps can go.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Classes

**Alacren** - usually a power alacrity renegade, but can sometimes
include other variants such as condition alacrity renegade or celestial
alacrity renegade. Expected to provide alacrity for the whole subgroup.
Power alacrity renegade will also provide protection.

**Ctank** - a chronomancer who can tank. This is usually on toughness
based tanking bosses.

**DD** - a daredevil (dps).

**DE** - a deadeye (dps). Sometimes used for specific mechanics such as
pylon at Qadim the Peerless or kiting at Qadim.

**Dudu** - I can't believe you're making me add this but it's a druid.
Just use the actual name please. Expected to give might, fury,
protection, regen and swiftness.

**Epi scourge** - a scourge that brings epidemic. Note epidemic is a
core necro skill so can also be brought by other necro specialisations,
but is best brought on a condi specialisation. Sometimes shortened to
**Epi**.

**FB** - a dps firebrand (condi expected). Also sometimes CFB.

**HAM** - a heal alacrity mechanist. Expected to provide might,
quickness, fury, protection, regen and barrier.

**Hcata** - a heal catalyst. Expected to provide might, fury, swiftness,
protection, quickness and regen.

**HFB** - a heal firebrand. Currently expected to provide quickness,
might, fury, protection, swiftness and regen. Often expected to tank.

**Miralac** - an alacrity mirage. Expected to provide might, alacrity
and some fury.

**QFB/cQFB** - condi quickness firebrand. Expected to provide quickness,
but also provides a lot of fury.

------------------------------------------------------------------------

## Kill proof/group requirements

**Exp** - looking for experienced people. Expected to know all the
mechanics relevant to their role and to do them without being asked.
Also expected to help with other mechanics if needed without micro
managing. Usually expected to do 20k+ dps if they are a pure dps role.

**FC** - also "full clear". This has two meanings - W7FC means full
clear of wing 7 (all bosses killed and gate). "W7FC-gate" would be
without gate. "FC" with no wing would be all wings. "W1-4FC" would be
all bosses in wings 1-4.

**Know mechs** - this is not a training run, but not a fast clear run
either. It's best classed as "semi training" or "experienced but casual
run so may have some things go wrong but we aren't doing mechanic
explanations".

**KP** - these are the tokens you get in a coffer after you kill a boss.
You get 1-5 per kill. Most LFGs are looking for the end boss' KP so
Sabetha, Matthias, Xera, Deimos, Dhuum, Qadim, Qadim the Peerless. These
can also be used for guild decorations so if you only raid in a guild
group, you can donate them to the guild and not worry about LFG
requirements. Some people use the killproof.me website so will put their
code into chat. If you have the kp.me addon, you can see LI/LD and
certain killproof of anyone in the squad in your instance.

**LI** or **LI/LD** - LI is Legendary Insights which are received from
killing raid bosses and some event encounters. LD are Legendary
Divinations which are a legacy currency and used to be from wings 5-7
(now retired). The squad commander wants to you ping yours into chat
when you join the squad. Note this is only possible on legacy versions
as it is now a currency which cannot be pinged. Some people use
killproof.me (also an addon) to be able to show their LI. Note that if
you used yours to make legendary armour, most commanders will accept the
armour pinged or you having the Envoy Herald title.

**Other requests** - some commanders put things like "5 carrots" or
"ping yummy food". This is mostly to check if the person joining is
reading the LFG.

**Quick clear** - the group is looking for experienced people who are
fairly good at their roles to get through the wing as quickly as
possible. Ideally easy wings would be 30-40 minutes maximum.

**Semi training** - often groups who know how the fights work, but still
have some difficulty in clearing them consistently.

**Training** - at least some of the group is new, mechanics explanations
will be provided and be prepared to wipe at bosses a few times. Don't
expect these runs to be quick clears.

**W1**, **W2** etc - these relate to the raid wings. Technically there's
only one raid wing (1-3 combined) but groups use them to refer to the
raids in the order they came out:

1. Spirit Vale
2. Salvation Pass
3. Stronghold of the Faithful
4. Bastion of the Penitent
5. Hall of Chains
6. Mythwright Gambit
7. The Key of Ahdashim
